README.md, before:

# Quarto Wingman

**Quarto Wingman** is a Positron/VSCode (and all CodeOSS alike) extension designed to enhance the editing experience for Quarto documents and scripts. It provides interactive code cell configuration based on Quarto documentation. Additionally, it enhances footnote display in documents and offers an inline code runner for R and Python scripts, making it especially useful for data exploration. Developed with modern data science workflows in mind, Quarto Wingman brings a streamlined, polyglot data science IDE experience to users.

## Features
- Provide code cell options for quarto document. The documentation was refered from [Quarto Homepage](https://quarto.org/docs/reference/cells/cells-knitr.html)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto1.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto2.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto3.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto4.png)


- Cite reference directly from a Zotero runtime and update the `*.bib` file.Default is to the `*.bib` file relative to the workspace root. Command `Quarto Wingman: Select citation from Zotero`.

- Highlighting footnote, both in-line footnote and block footnote references or definitions (e.g., [^1]: Note content or [^1] references). Three new token are introduced including `meta.footnote.inline.quarto`, `meta.footnote.reference.quarto`, `meta.footnote.definition.quarto`

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/footnote.png)

- Add a `Run Inline Code` button to `.r` and `.py` script that allows user to run code in comment. It is useful for data exploration task where you want to keep the experiment code in your script without interfere the entire workflow.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/inline-code.png)


## 🙏 Attribution

Created by [ntluong95](https://github.com/ntluong95)  
Licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE)
  

## 💡 Future Ideas

- [ ] Snippets for different type of Quarto project (book, website, manuscript, cross reference, directive, etc.) and common format (html, pdf, word, tysp, presentation, dashboard.)

Commit message:

Add a `Insert Code Chunk` command that allows user to insert a code chunk with a language of their choice

README.md, after:

# Quarto Wingman

**Quarto Wingman** is a Positron/VSCode (and all CodeOSS alike) extension designed to enhance the editing experience for Quarto documents and scripts. It provides interactive code cell configuration based on Quarto documentation. Additionally, it enhances footnote display in documents and offers an inline code runner for R and Python scripts, making it especially useful for data exploration. Developed with modern data science workflows in mind, Quarto Wingman brings a streamlined, polyglot data science IDE experience to users.

## Features
- Provide code cell options for quarto document. The documentation was refered from [Quarto Homepage](https://quarto.org/docs/reference/cells/cells-knitr.html)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto1.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto2.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto3.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/quarto4.png)


- Cite reference directly from a Zotero runtime and update the `*.bib` file.Default is to the `*.bib` file relative to the workspace root. Command `Quarto Wingman: Select citation from Zotero`.

- Highlighting footnote, both in-line footnote and block footnote references or definitions (e.g., [^1]: Note content or [^1] references). Three new token are introduced including `meta.footnote.inline.quarto`, `meta.footnote.reference.quarto`, `meta.footnote.definition.quarto`

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/footnote.png)

- Add a `Run Inline Code` button to `.r` and `.py` script that allows user to run code in comment. It is useful for data exploration task where you want to keep the experiment code in your script without interfere the entire workflow.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/inline-code.png)


- Provide a `Insert Code Chunk` command that allows user to insert a code chunk with a language of their choice.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ntluong95/quarto-wingman/refs/heads/main/resources/insert-code.png)

## 🙏 Attribution

Created by [ntluong95](https://github.com/ntluong95)  
Licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE)
  

## 💡 Future Ideas

- [ ] Snippets for different type of Quarto project (book, website, manuscript, cross reference, directive, etc.) and common format (html, pdf, word, tysp, presentation, dashboard.)
